the open philanthropy project recently
gave a $500,000 grant to ace
however they wrote a damning criticism
of a stating that they had used a quote
reliance on low quality research low
quality data and that they had
reservations about the level of vetting
ace applies to charities claims about
themselves in other words the public may
very well have been deceived into
donating potentially millions of dollars
based on bad science and self-made
claims leafletting is a big deal and I
saw a lecture recently at the vegan
conference that happens every year in
the Czech Republic in Prague there's a
YouTube channel for called vegan channel
there was this I maybe 19 year old girl
gave a lecture so she could have been 20
she could in 18 I forget a young young
woman and she was very nervous and
having troubles me she goes up and
stands in front of this live proudness
electric and she says well this is gonna
be a lecture about leafleting about like
affective leafleting and why i want all
of you to be super excited about
leafleting and i sat there like really
hostile sir i'm not in the crowd I'm
watching this on YouTube I'm like okay
let's see where this goes as funny this
girl gives a totally shizune pointless
set of reflections on on leafletting and
i realized oh so this young woman
doesn't realize that right now within
the vegan movement leafleting is like a
political minefield it's become this
really loaded thing because of groups
like animal charity evaluators now okay
I guess I guess this is as good a time
as any I can cut to a minute or so clip
from this video by shark
[Music]
animal charity evaluators or ace is a
group that claims to review
organizations for effectiveness then
they promote those charities and ask
people to financially support them ace
Awards three organizations top charity
status this positioning is incredibly
lucrative as top charities get the most
money donated to them from its inception
to the time of this video only four
groups have been awarded top charity
status all of them are related to an
animal rights activist named Nick Cooney
this includes Mercy for Animals where he
is executive vice president the humane
League where he used the founder and
board chair and the good food Institute
where he was co-founder and board chair
top charity status is a fiscal
designation and is potentially worth
millions of dollars in donations
considering there are 20,000 humane
organizations in existence it made no
sense that only those groups either
founded by or having a financial
relationship with Nick Cooney were
chosen for that highly profitable top
charity status ace also put deceiving
information on their guidestar page they
claimed that in 2016 they quote
conducted evaluations of over 300 animal
charities however when we go back to
their website we see that the total
number of charities they have reviewed
is 1/3 less than that out of that 205 an
astounding 117 supposedly views
consisted of a website link and nothing
more the reality is they focus on those
they pre-selected to promote a large
part of the scam that this group animal
charity evaluators has been foisted on
the begin movement on the world and I
feel confident calling it a scam begins
with the assumption that for every one
person who becomes vegan you save so
many animal lives
[Music]
so they set up a calculus this so they
start off by saying well let's suppose
that if one person who's a meteor
becomes vegan that saves the lives of 30
animals now we already had a video
talking about the extent to which this
is dubious or untrue or we can't we
can't proceed with this assumption and
then I say okay now let's estimate if
you give this charity a thousand dollars
and they hand out so many thousand
leaflets they convert the money into a
leaflet and campaign then how many
meat-eaters become vegan because of
having the leaflet hand them and then
through this calculus they tell you for
every $1 you donate to this charity you
save the lives of eight animals or
fifteen outs now to me already that's a
skin if you regard that in isolation
that is a scam if I say to you you
donate $100 to me and I'm going to save
the lives of 27.3 animals they give you
a specific factual claim that already is
a scam but it really gets more slippery
and kind of psychological manipulative
when you're comparing more than one type
of vegan activism which is exactly the
point of this research the point is to
have a comparative evaluative overview
of what different vegan groups are doing
so to give an example I just looked up
what Sharpe does you've seen the video
by shark but it doesn't tell you who
they are what they do so this is this
interesting no I'm I'm not hating I'm
but this is not my cup of tea I'm not
into rodeos I just I don't care about
rodeos and horse races and horse-drawn
carriages for me and my vegan activism
that's not the issue I'm gonna tackle
right there are so many different
different issues but it doesn't mean I
think rodeo activism is [ __ ] it's
not my perspective but I'm just saying
I'm totally detached in this it's not
telling with you so an example of one of
the things they did was objecting to
supermarkets in the Trader Joe's chain
so trader Joe was a chain of
supermarkets we don't have them in
Canada I don't think but you guys have
in the States so so two different shops
from Trader Joe's were donating money to
support rodeos an ace they did an
intervention they expose this and they
no this isn't acceptable and apparently
the higher levels of the Trader Joe's
corporation agreed with activists they
said yeah that look they don't want the
name of Trader Joe's linked to rodeos
they also read and said no that's true
you know both individual branch stores
or something it's a I don't know how
their corporate hierarchy works with
probably there's some independence for
local stores to do local promotions and
they said yeah actually they don't
approve of promotions linking Trader
Joe's to to rodeos of this should this
should stop so okay what is the
effectiveness of this form of activism
if you are actually gonna put a number
on it and they choose this this
organization AC e they're not just
putting a number like a rating like a
Plus through D - they're not putting a
number from 1 to 1 to 10 they're
actually attempting to put a number on
it that's the number of animal lives
saved I'm like if you if maybe this is
my real-life girlfriend she's not just
me not just my co-host on a TV show but
you know if you if we're back in Canada
and you want to get involved in you know
protest against the rodeo some of that
it's not like I'd say no absolutely okay
well let's see what goes you know it's
open mind open heart
see if Liam possibly see if we can make
a positive difference but how would you
measure the positive difference and if
you came to me one day and you said you
know I just came back to the protest I
just saved the lives of 27 animals I
look at you like you know what are you
crazy
now I mean this kind of prayers for this
specific example two different shops
were prevented from donating money to a
rodeo to supporting a rodeo and to
promotion I think I mean the most
positive outcome probably would be that
it made a lot of people ask themselves
difficult questions probably people
inside Trader Joe's had to stop and ask
themselves well what's our corporate
mission what direction are we going in
you know just ordinary average people
who happen to see the story in a
newspaper this controversy probably stop
at ask themselves gee you know a
sporting event that's based around
electrocuting cows and horses and then
you know chasing them around a field hmm
you know like there is I mean in terms
of effectiveness there
or these effects but to quantify them at
all is incredibly just to quantify them
to give them like a grade like a minus
serve or b-plus that's already a huge
challenge and to have an objectively
real consistent quantification where I
could look at that protest against
rodeos and compare it to our protest
against fur farms and say oh this one's
an 8 out of 10 this one's a 7 out of 10
like that's a huge challenge for the
social sciences I'm not saying it's
impossible because like I've been
involved with projects like that like in
Cambodia where you sit down you're like
well on a scale of 1 to 10 how good is
this hospital
compared to this hospital it's complex
what makes a good hospital a bad husband
how good is the hospital at helping poor
people how good is it at you know
performing complex surgeries what are
the wait times what are the signs of
corrupt there's a lot there's a lot that
goes into how clean is the hospital
literally one of the measures we had was
how often do the the searches wash their
hands where we watched them we had the
researchers sit in the room and watch
whether or not the doctor wash their
hands in front but maybe you have a
great hospital but the doctors don't
wash their hands enough but not that one
you know so and you've got to actually
come up with the math how important is
washing your hands compared to helping
poor people or doing really good
surgeries or something you know great
point
we never write we never attempted that
that's a great point could you could you
extrapolate how many lives
you're saving sure thing I could think
if there was a protest going on at a
rodeo afterwards if somebody wanted to
hand out a survey and people would
answer like did you see the protesters
did you think about it while you were
watching the rodeo like that that would
be the only thing that I think could see
too I'm even very skeptical of that
because there are studies of that kind
there are right what is it volunteer
visor whatever like whoever chooses to
actually fill out the survey you know
right so that's already a problem is a
sample selection yeah and is it so is it
cell phones hear it or is it chosen
another way
yeah those that there's a huge problems
in social sciences but even when you do
research like that so I mean you know AC
e did this one study and they
interviewed about 489 people so the
exact number is in the article link
below from Harrison Nathan and one
person this is like four hundred and
people who are leaflet it and then they
interviewed them they did a study like
how effective was this leaving one
person became vegetarian
after this leasing but even then you
can't say because this person went
vegetarian we savers how many you know
real some point is the person Hindu or
their parents in do this is a huge is no
but is the person Chinese are they
Chinese from Taiwan already some of that
which I'm not mentioning because I'm
racist the fact that I'm racist has
nothing to do with it you know like you
know most people have some kind of
background some kind of Barents before
they make the decision to go vegan like
even if someone handed you a pamphlet
you saw it like you know what yeah I
should go vegan like in my case it's not
my back I don't have a background as a
Hindu you know but I mean I had a
background I could now talk for an hour
what were the childhood experiences in
background the values you know what sir
my father he started doing a PhD on
Hinduism and actually Hinduism was part
of the reason my father never converted
he's white in case you haven't guessed
but you know what my father was involved
with Hinduism and that shaped his
worldview and and indeed shaped what he
said about vegetarianism to me growing
up and so on to and you know obviously I
could I could list off 100 of the things
but I don't believe there's this really
simple cause and effect like you hand
someone a pamphlet on veganism they're
like oh veganism
oh oh I'll do that next week cool like I
don't think in effectiveness this is
about cause and effect and even
something like a major intervention like
the rodeo maybe you're spurring people
to ask questions definite you know maybe
in China if you if you handed out
leaflets like there are people that seem
to have never heard of a despite bow
doesn't be yes but even the but with
train so I have a lot of experience so I
can put this with Chinese and with
Buddhists of other ethnicities including
Buddhists from Sri Lanka and Thailand
in other parts the world but like
normally even then so when you talk to
Chinese people look when I said before
well is this person Hindu or are they
Chinese or do they have another
background there maybe they're white or
black but there's something else that's
pushing them to the brink of being ready
to think about mean ism so even if I
talk to a Chinese person who's grown up
with parents and grandparents who are
devout Buddhist s-- or you talk to an
Indian person who has vegetarians in
their family which is very common they
come from a mixed caste family some of
their family that relatives are
vegetarian and some need me you know a
very common in India but you know so
they come out of whatever background
they've got very often you get a lot of
questions back like oh is that even
nutritionally possible now they may be
hostile they may say well I think if I'm
vegan I'll die I won't be able to
survive that's a sincere concern you
know and you know you may start to talk
to them about that but it's obvious if
this person doesn't sit down and do a
couple hours of reading about the
nutrition they're not gonna make the
change now I'm not hating like you know
I want people go ahead do the reading
like don't don't make the decision at a
blind ignorance if you really think you
need to eat milk to live which millions
of people believe people believe that in
India people believe that in America
people leave that in China they think
they will die if they don't eat dairy
products well you know what I can help
you out but it's not like that one
pamphlet you know I don't believe people
make that leap in response to one family
and again that that doesn't mean
pamphlets have zero efficacy but this is
a kind of bizarre game that I would
describe as a scam of you know and the
thing that's painful is it's a scam
that's kind of at the crossroads between
like mathematics and morality you know
you can put a number on anything yeah we
can we can we get a sign yeah there for
there for 12 people became vegan there
for 12 times 30 is we saved so many
animal study that you mentioned you
can't apply that to every put every
pamphlet that you hand out in the future
you can't say like oh the last time we
did this one out of every 498 people
became vegetarian this time like same
same so like we hand out leaflets over
and over again
let's let's let's get let's get really
racist what if you're handing of those
pamphlets in front of a Hindu temple
with everyone coming out they're already
somewhere on the vegetarian spectrum as
opposed to handing them out in Alaska
like you don't think that's different I
mean Anchorage Alaska we can choose a
specific front of a Presbyterian Church
in Anchorage like you don't think there
are slightly different outcomes you know
what I mean like anyway sorry but well
you know I mentioned this again I'm
mentioning this not in order to be
racist but the point is to draw
attention to the profound cultural
moorings of these questions and how
people how people come up with with
answers in the extent to which the
pamphlet doesn't have like a quality we
can evaluate and assign a number to in a
vacuum you know what I mean I think also
I mean the context of like if I have a
you know deep interaction with someone
about veganism and then they say they
want more information and I give them a
pamphlet like that's that's really
different from like standing it was
really literally showering a crowd with
pamphlets you can just be throwing them
into a crowd you know a pamphlet being
maybe the last thing somebody gets after
some kind of interaction with activists
at a demo that's very very different
from that the pamphlet being the whole
focus of your your form of activism
again I I don't even want to say like
these things are not effective I'm just
saying it's really really hard to assign
a number to them and the types of effect
are very hard to put the same number on
the type of effect of a publicity stunt
like maybe shutting down the rodeo maybe
protesting the rodeo shark also protests
at pigeon shoots you know now I
sympathize like you know I real as a
vegan I sympathize they're horrified by
actually watching these pigeons die slow
terrible deaths and so on I I sympathize
and they want to be there and have
cameras and showed and I think they get
on the news and get in the newspaper
forced ratings in some ways that's
effective but how do I compare that to
PCRM you know so PC arm is Physicians
Committee for Responsible medicine PCRM
taking a lawsuit and challenging the
government and actually change the
government polls it's very hard to put a
number on there's another huge category
here by the way if you click on
laris and Nathan's article ace assigns
numbers which again I think are a scam
to collaborations between vegan
charities and meat producing
corporations so it's like no again I'm
not gonna make a simple statement
somebody like Gary France aione would
you say this is evil period like that's
it this is evil any cooperation to
vegans and that's that's the end of it
but that's that's not what I'm here to
say you know okay so you got a vegan
organization doing kind of hand-in-hand
cooperation with like a dairy dairy
company or a poultry producer or what
have you and allegedly this dairy
producer is changing something they do
to be more ethical you know to be less
painful of the animals because this
vegan group recommended it or co-signed
it or something and you know would they
have done it anyway or what you know
what's the nature of the kind of
propaganda and product here or something
you know it's you're gonna assign a
number to that for for animal live is
saved like already if it was just a
scorecard if there's just an ordinal
number if it's just a plus a minus if
you're just giving a thumbs-up or
thumbs-down I think you can have a kind
of investigative meaningful dialogue
about how good or bad this is but like
how many lives were saved so look most
of we talk about in this channel when we
talk about effective activism is it's
it's subjective in a very overt
transparent sense if Melissa tells me
she wants to go down and do rodeo
activism you know the question I'm
asking is is this effective for you is
this effective compared to the other
things you could be doing with your time
and I think again like you know I have a
million videos on this channel on
criticizing direct action everywhere
akdx see direct attention ever as a
particular repeating group I think
they're wrong about so many things but
they were founded in a moment of honest
reflection where Wayne's young their
founder he handed out pamphlets I think
over a hundred times he'd done these
demonstrations with a hand out pamphlets
and the hand up free vegan cookies and
they invite people to come to see a
documentary for free and he said over
doing this thousands of time
the number of people were converted to
veganism are shown any interest you know
was like was a handful it was an
incredibly small number of an incredibly
small number had ever sent him an email
like there was an email on the pamphlet
for more information and he's like five
people had ever sent him an email and
only a couple people had ever shown up
at the film night who weren't already
vegan the people had actually been given
the pamphlet so over years of doing this
he hit his limit and said this doesn't
work something has to change that's a
really honest moment and a really honest
reflection on effective activism and I
see more value in that I mean like I
feel like he's asking the right
questions then in this scam animal
charity evaluators have foisted on the
vegan movement and that from my
perspective the whole so-called
effective effect effective activism
movement sub movement I think is drawn
the name of effectiveness through the
mud they've discredited the concept of
effectiveness itself you know anything
can be measured you know you can assign
numbers to things to me at them at the
moment to be honestly emotionally I'm a
little bit more [ __ ] up about this
because I've just slightly been dealing
with again the question of how do you
measure the effectiveness of Buddhist
meditation to me that's profoundly
similar it's like okay I can take
someone and teach them how to meditate
and then measure how much less angry
they are after meditation and how do you
how do you measure anger how do you
assign a number from one to ten to how
angry someone was before and after they
meditated it's not a shallow question
and then there are all these questions
that are easy to deal with in a Socratic
way but seems so difficult for people to
deal with as soon as you you assign a
numbers link as soon as we're into this
weird intersection math and morality it
seems to me the way a sea animal charity
evaluates the way they respond to this
kind of criticism is by saying how dare
you if you ask these questions you're
against the animals more for the animals
you know it's the same with the Buddhist
meditation stuff it's like well if you
dare to question this scientific study
saying that meditation is affected then
you're against Buddhism or you're
against meditation etc you know but
those are exactly the tough tough
questions we have to ask
and in the 21st century all the evidence
I see just indicates that if anything
people have become more and more naive
more and more shizune about what math
means the basic assumptions of the
social sciences donations about the
different charities than getting the
most donations yeah
well that's another weird part of this
game is just the amount of money
involved you and I have never knew I
mean we've never talked about that you
and I have never once asked the question
how much money do you think we can raise
for blank and veganism never we don't
look at it that way but I mean that's
the other thing many people watch this
may have forgotten about there is big
money in this game and in one case in
the video of mentions an agency that
serves at the open philanthropy project
and even though they published criticism
saying that this is a bad organization
AC they still need them half a million
dollars half a million US dollars is a
lot of money
apparently that way right their project
yeah they were critical they directly
say they directly say this relies on
pseudoscience this relies on numbers
that don't make sense and so on right
but I'm guessing that project it's the
same thing in a lot of other areas of
philanthropy nonprofit charity work etc
then and they probably just have a list
of applicants and they got a pick three
or four that are the least bad to give
money to do their budget for that year
you know a lot of the time you know it's
like well you don't have to be good you
just have to be better than the
alternative for the to get that to get
that budget you know so yeah it's funny
though it is another wake up call to me
look like well there are donors out
there there's demand for action on these
issues there are there are people some
of them are foundations some of them are
foundations like open Flensburg but I'm
guessing it's mostly elderly retired
people who want to see change you want
to see action on these issues and
obviously everyone knows peda has a
multi-million dollar budget but a lot of
these agencies do and I guess I mean
what we call outcome evaluation you know
it's the quantitative side I guess what
they're confronted with is how do they
actually quantify what it is they did
with your money after you give that
money to them and I'm that that's a
tough question you know if you did if
you paid for everyone's bus ticket just
to come to a protest at a rodeo is that
a good or a bad use of donor money I
think that's really debatable I'm like
I'm open it you know what I mean like I
think we can talk about that like well
as opposed to the alternatives we can
just buy bus tickets you know I mean
like long long haul bus tickets for a
bunch of people to go into a rodeo and
then stand in front of the rodeo holding
placards
I can think of better things to do with
the same amount of money you know but I
can't assign that a simple number like
these guys though ace they even assign
money for Internet advertisements that
for every one dollar you spend on on
putting a pro vegan advertisement on the
Internet you're gonna save 18 animals
lives to me this is crazier than like a
Buddhist belief in karma this is we're
getting real crazy now you know what I
mean
like to me this is at the same level as
like Catholic prayer or something like
okay so if you do this right yeah if you
do this symbolic act if you donate this
money you'll save so many souls who have
some kind of good outcome but a lot of
stuff in Buddhist and pseudo Buddhist
cults are like that with you know trying
to assign a value to karmic karmic acts
on it look I mean like everyone else
there was a time when when I saw Oh
effective activism oh so there's this
movement within veganism to try to
really evaluate what is and isn't
effective I had a positive bias I
thought great what could be wrong with
that
and then these [ __ ] exactly what's
wrong with it like any idea it's amazing
you know any idea can be misused you
know it's that's like the moral of the
story it's like you know in this case I
mean all I deal
is dangerous all ideals are inherently
corruptible and misleading and bad and
wrong but Wow even an ideal is as simple
as we should care about and try to
measure what is effective can in this
way discredit yeah like you said people
are easily swayed by that seeing like
this will save this many lives or as
many animal lives but like there has to
be a way to garner donations that
doesn't like you don't have to lie about
it right like I I accept donations
myself I raise six thousand five hundred
dollars in less than 48 hours
you know I myself have an open patreon I
make under $200 a month out of it we
know it's you know it's it's real I want
to say too I've said this in many videos
lately the most underrated
activists in veganism or the restaurant
owners you know owned a hotdog stand on
a restaurant on whatever you want those
people are sooner how how many lives do
you say if i running a vegan hot dogs
and i think that's impossible to assign
that number to I think it's ridiculous
and surreal and how do you compare it
like so let's just say you own a
restaurant in downtown Detroit in
downtown Detroit and the sign for the
restaurant says the word vegan or like
let's say the south person says vegan
food is healthy that's the name of the
restaurant right what is the effect what
is the effectiveness of that restaurant
just standing there because he does have
an effect the same way that gay rights
organizations back in the day back when
homosexuality was way more taboo it was
a huge statement to just have a
permanent office in downtown Toronto for
gay rights because it normally it said
hey we exist we're not going away we're
not hiding this isn't something secret
like gay rights is this cause and we got
this office and you know what I mean
nobody had to even walk inside it you
know what I mean that made a statement
just by existing that as a mention of
their videos they got quoted in the
newspaper you know whatever journalist
had to ask someone about get a gay
rights issue or a controversy they'd
call them you know and other people will
say like someone who's a total
meat-eater will say oh yeah you know we
have we have quite a few gay vegan
restaurants here in here in Detroit oh
yeah you know via oh yeah that there's a
there's a neighborhood there's a
district there are a few places around
oh yeah that's something normal and
permanent that's an option that exists
it's not gonna kill you you're not gonna
die for lack of dairy products those are
powerful and important messages that get
across just buy the restaurant existing
even if nobody eats there you know like
if I'm not assigning karmic value to the
actual feed hotdog you know what I mean
but I I can't I can never do this kind
of calculus you know yeah well I'm just
thinking of the actual charities or the
organizations that were mentioned so
Mercy for Animals what I mostly think of
when I think of Mercy for Animals is
like farm sanctuaries yes like I think
that really makes you like it appeals to
people's desire to just like you know it
makes people sad to know that so many
animals are being killed in a
slaughterhouse and like these animals
are being saved and like I think I think
this this number this quantifying is to
get people to feel like they're actually
making a difference like this is I am
personally saving this money you know
this number of animals but without that
maybe otherwise it's just a petting zoo
if you don't believe that it's just a
fancy petting zoo well and you know
Harrison Nathan says about this he
doesn't really drive at home with a
hammer he just kind of mentions this in
passing but this would be me driving
over there
what animal charity evaluators are
measuring as effectiveness is not linked
to any effect they're measuring the
extent to which other animal charities
ideologically agree with them with
themselves and it's very subtle surgery
you know I could do that again I'm too
detached I have a real education in
social sciences I've done real social
science research I've also done research
on Buddhism and other things but like
Eve way even in Buddhism I wouldn't do
that like I wouldn't say oh this
Buddhist temple agrees more with my
personal beliefs and values therefore
it's better than some other you've got
to have the detachment to say different
strokes different folks but like I
mentioned earlier I'm in a sense biased
against the rodeo thing you know talking
about horses and pony shows I don't I
don't really give a [ __ ] it's just not
my interest whereas there other issues
of the veganism I'm much more passionate
but I'm much more engaged about so
that's something of fellowship
valuated by this groove but you know
even if it's right it's not really what
they care about the you know anti rodeo
should be evaluated on the same level is
like Mercy for Animals or right so I
mean like that's but that's a
requirement supposed to be there for
like evaluating charities right and
that's and that's that's a requirement
that's even lower than and simpler than
science I mean for something to be a
true science you've got a whole lot of
checkmark boxes but this is just about
being fair and equitable which is do we
have the same unit can we compare unit
by unit the value of the rodeo protests
versus the value of a fer protest or
pamphlet based activism or other you
know a video or a film festival okay if
we have a vegan film best we can do
fundraising for that today you and me
today with no help from anyone
we could start a patreon and say we're
gonna do a vegan Film Festival donate
money here's the location here's how
much money we need let's that we can do
that tonight we can put up a patreon and
do that is it effective is it effective
to have a bean Film Festival
first and foremost mostly only other
vegans of all time yeah right but me
know but maybe that's still meaningful
maybe that's still effective right
that's what you get into but you think
there's a unit I can put on a unit such
as number of animal live saved and I can
compare that to a vegan restaurants or
rodeo protest it's bizarre it's it's
really really bizarre this this is a
less lower than sign we're not even
talking about is this truly scientific
but is this true you know yeah that's
not really what I want I don't I mean of
course of course I would like fewer
animals to be killed but what I really
want is for people to change well it's
um kind of like actual political action
something that will make veganism more
prevalent like you talked about like
restaurants like when it's just a sign
that says viewing one piece erm they
directly pursue real political change
right so that's one example of purely
political
there's the pursuit of cultural change
right I'm publishing a children's story
book I could do a patreon for that
Osorio fundraiser for that
like a Kickstarter tonight if I wanted
to okay it's a children's storybook
delivering the message of veganism to
children blah blah blah you know is that
effective I know for a fact that
storybook is already deeply meaningful
to a number of people who read it like
some people read it in front of me I was
in the room and I saw the effect it had
on them so it is effective in some sense
it's deeply emotionally moved my own
mother said she broke down crying
reading this story she only read it in
English not in Chinese my mother's
Chinese is a bit rusty but you know you
know so there's a sense in which I know
this isn't like moving and effective and
I'm gonna pay an artist and publish a
book but you know putting a number on
those and putting them in the same
category but yeah there's outright
political change
there's the pursuit of cultural change
that can be sitt can be very slippery
and yeah I mean there and then there's
also just straight-up dietary change
this straight up advocacy for imperf
like providing vegan meals vegan
alternatives and places that don't have
them the end very very hard to quantify
yeah but apparently this is the this is
the challenge I mean look I'm gonna be
straight with you I am NOT saying oh
well animal charity evaluators did the
best they could I guess they can't do
any better I could do better
I could do better if I applied the same
standards of social science research I
used in Cambodia I could do better so
there's no doubt it is completely
possible to do a better job than animal
charity evaluators but still I want to
point out there's a sense in which they
are trying to do something impossible I
think that's kind of philosophically
very meaningful to to stay in touch with
all right click on the link below this
video we talk about this stuff all the
time because we think about in our own
future is it a waste of our time is it
effective activism for us or not for us
to own and operate a restaurant or a
small bakery or a hotel that we really
think about that stuff is it a waste of
our time to be involved in and trying to
collaborate with other types of activism
these are real meaningful issues in our
life this is not some kind of academic
abstract display discussion I do have a
patreon if you want to join $1.00 you
can join the conversation hit me up a
bonus yen
[Music]
ba Lu Cl